- [Instructor] The feign project takes a different approach
to making API calls.
That makes it much easier.
Instead of building API requests with the builder,
open feign allows us to build interfaces
that define the API call.
Let me show you what I mean.
I think you're really going to like this.
So to get started, we need to add two dependencies
to our Palm dot XML file.
So here you'll see that I've added feign core
and feign Jackson.
With those dependencies in place,
we can start out by creating a new interface
within our calm dot LinkedIn dot API dot Twilio package.
So I'll open the dialogue and just build an interface
and I'm going to name it Azure sentiments clients.
So you might be asking why are we working with Azure?
Well, I wanted to make sure
that you got the experience working with feign and Jason.
And since Twilio's API isn't using Jason,
we're going to circle back
and recreate one of our Azure calls
to the text analytics API.
So once you have the name in place for the interface,
go ahead and hit finish, and the interface will be created.
Now, the first thing that we need to do
is create a new method on this interface
and it's going to return a type
of sentiment analysis response.
Now, this is important.
The return type of the method will determine the type
that feign will de-serialize the response body too.
So if the API returns Jason,
feign will take that Jason and de-serialize it
to an object of type sentiment analysis response.
Now, that's important.
And there are some other things we'll have to talk about
but I'm just going to go ahead and name this method
analyze and not add any parameters yet.
The next thing we're going to do
is add the request line annotation.
So this is an annotation that feign provides
that allows us to describe the HTTP request
that will be used to make the API call.
So here, we're going to say, we'll use an HTTP post
and we're going to perform that post to the text analytics
V3.O sentiment path.
So here we specify the path
to the sentiment service within Azure cognitive services.
Now notice I haven't specified the domain here.
We'll get to that later.
You'll also remember that when we called Azure,
we needed to provide some headers.
So we can use the headers annotation
and it's going to accept an array of strings
that contain our headers.
The first header we'll need to provide
is the content type header
which declares the mime type of our requests body.
So I'll go ahead and add that.
And that's a pretty easy one because it's static.
Sometimes headers will have dynamic data.
You'll remember
that we had to pass our API key over to Azure.
So there's the header name for that API key and this value,
we're not going to make it static.
It's going to be dynamic and to help us with that,
we can use a template within this header.
So to create the template,
I just put the template name within curly braces.
And then what we can do is in the signature of the method,
we can declare a parameter of type string.
I'm going to name it API key.
And then we apply the Param annotation
and we provide the name of the template
that it should be used for.
So essentially, when we call this analyze method,
the first argument, the API key,
it's value will be used as the value for this header.
Now, let's talk about one more parameter here.
This is going to be the text analytics request parameter.
I'm just going to name it request.
And this, if you remember, is the type that we use
to pass over the text document and the other information
to Azure cognitive services for analysis.
So it models the Jason that we need to send
in the request body to the text analytics API.
And what feign will do with this is it will take this object
and it will serialize it to Jason
and then pass it in the request body over to Azure.
So you can see that using feign,
we can define all the different parts
of an API call or an HTTP request using either annotations
or information provided in the method signature.
Okay. With that part complete,
we can head over to our unit test
where we're going to use our new client.
Let me point out a couple of things here.
We are injecting the API key for Azure.
So make sure you have your environment variable stood up.
And then also, we need to have a constant
that specifies the endpoint to your specific resource
in Azure.
Yours could look different than mine.
All right. So inside of this test,
I've already created the text document
and the text analytics request.
You know, I've added the content here
that we want to analyze for sentiment.
And then I've added assertions too,
to make sure everything is going to pass.
The content should be positive
and we do check that in line 36.
So we're just going to fill in the gaps here
by first creating a client.
So we have our Azure sediment client.
This is the interface we just worked on.
To create an instance of it,
we use the feign class and on that class, we find a builder.
Now, the first thing we'll need to specify is a decoder.
And we can use an object of type JacksonDecoder.
The decoder is going to be responsible
for taking the response body
from the API and de-serializing it.
And we can do that with Jackson since we're using Jason.
Now, the other thing we need to specify is an encoder
and this is kind of the reverse.
However, we can still use Jackson here.
The Jackson encoder will be responsible
for serializing any objects and placing that content
into the request body that we're sending to the API.
So you can see how we handle serialization
and de-serialization there.
Now, the final thing is pretty important.
We need to call the target method.
And in this method,
the first thing that we supply is the class of the client
that we would like to create.
So this is the interface that we just worked on.
So we provide that class.
And then the next thing we need to provide as an argument
is the domain of the API.
So I'm going to pass in the end point
to my specific resource in Azure.
Okay.
Now let's go ahead
and we're going to use our client to make the call.
And this is the beautiful part.
We just call the method.
So you'll notice we pass in our API key
that will be provided as the template in our header.
Then we pass in our text analytics request object
that will be serialized
and sent in the request body.
And then you can see that we get a response back
of type sentiment analysis response
and that's going to be the de-serialized Jason
that the API sent.
So everything's in place here.
Let's go ahead,
we'll save this, go to run as
and then J unit test and we can see this in action.
Okay. So our tests pass and that's good.
You can really see through this example
just the benefits of working with feign.
If you're familiar with spring data,
you might recognize this approach because it's very similar
to how we work with repositories.
Using the interface and annotation based approach
that feign provides,
it's much easier for us as a Java developer to call an API.